{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\title More Heat Stress}
{\author thaca0}
{\*\company BP}}\margl1440\margr1584\vieww12840\viewh16440\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Quiz Assignment 3                                                                  Name: Tom Byrne\
\
Chapters 3, 4, & 5                                                                     Due Date :          March 9, 2013                                         \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs21 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 Chapter 3\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
1. Describe the three types of symbiotic relationships.\
\
The three types of symbiotic relationships are mutualism, commensalism and parasitism. Mutualism is a relationship in which both members clearly benefit from the relationship. Commensalism is a type of symbiosis in which one species clearly benefits, but the other member neither benefits nor is hurt by the relationship. The final type, parasitism is a form of symbiosis because despite it being a predation, the parasite is dependent on it's host.\
\
2. Competition for a limited quantity of resources occurs in all ecosystems.  This competition can be 
\i interspecific
\i0  or 
\i intraspecific
\i0 . Explain some of the ways an organism might deal with these different types of competition.\
\
Organisms that are competing for the same resource can have different ways of dealing with this competition. In some situations, such as intraspecific competition (competition between members of the same species), generational distribution can happen - the young of a species can travel outside of the area that is held by their parent's generation, seeking out new territory. Intraspecific competition can also lead to direct fighting for resources, such as elk or moose fighting over females. Interspecific competition (competition between multiple species) can be dealt with by means such as resource partitioning - using different parts of the ecosystem in the same area, such as warblers specializing on different tree parts to find insects.\
\
3. What do ecologists mean by the term 
\i resilience
\i0 ? In what ways might diversity contribute to resilience in an ecosystem?\
\
Resilience refers to the ability of an ecosystem to absorb damage, and recover from  disturbance.  Diversity contributes to this in several ways. Having multiple species that can perform the same task or occupy the same trophic level increases the likelihood that one or more of the species will be able to withstand damage or disturbance, therefore minimizing the overall effect of damage to the system.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Chapter 4\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
4. Define 
\i ecological footprint
\i0 . How many more earths would it take if all of us tried to live at the same level of affluence as the average North American?\
\
An ecological footprint is an estimate of the relative amount of land that it takes to support one human being. If every human on earth lived with the same affluence level as an average North American, we would require the resources from an additional 3.5 earths.\
\
5. Define 
\i crude birth rate
\i0 , 
\i total fertility rate
\i0 , 
\i crude death rate
\i0 , and 
\i zero population growth
\i0 .\
\
Crude Birth rate is the number of births per year, per 1000 persons. It is considered "crude" because it is not adjusted for various population characteristics.\
\
Total fertility rate is the number of children that is born to an average woman in a population in her entire reproductive life.  \
\
Crude death rate refers to the number of deaths per 1000 people, per year. \
\
Zero population growth refers to a balanced state where the number of births and immigration is equal to deaths and emigration - this causes a relatively static population number from generation to generation.\
\
6. What is the difference between 
\i life expectancy 
\i0 and 
\i life span
\i0 ? Why are they different?\
\
Life expectancy and life span are very different - life span refers to the oldest age which a species has been known to survive (for example the oldest known human lived to be 122.) Life Expectancy refers to the average age that a member of that species can be expected to live to. One represents an absolute maximum, while the latter represents a much more likely average. \
They are  different because it is impossible for everyone to live to be the maximum age - illness, accident and mutation all contribute to a species dying, and so many members of a species die earlier than the maximum age, giving a much lower average expectancy.\
\
7. Describe the conditions that lead to a 
\i demographic transition
\i0 .\
\
A demographic transition is usually characterized by falling birth and death rates. This is due to the improved living conditions that accompany economic development.  Demographic transitions happen in four stages, and follow a pattern where as economic conditions improve, death rates fall, followed by birth rates, and eventually both stabilize in a fully developed society.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Chapter 5\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
8. Why did ecologists want to reintroduce wolves to Yellowstone Park? What goals did they have, and have their goals been achieved?\
\
The primary reasons for re-introducing gray wolves to Yellowstone are because this is their historic range, and they are primary predator. Grey wolves can help control the Elk population, as well as increasing tourism. The goal of creating a self-sustaining wolf population (of over 100 wolves) has been achieved, and in fact surpassed. There are an estimated 1,200 wolves in Yellowstone currently.\
\
9. Describe nine major types of terrestrial biomes.\
\
Tropical Moist Forests - Forests that are warm or hot, and have a lot of rainfall year round.\
Tropical Seasonal Forests - tropical forests that have distinct wet and dry seasons, but the temperature remains warm or hot. \
Tropical Savannas and grasslands - these occur in warm areas where there is not enough rainfall to support a forest. They often have a rainy and dry season, but the rainy season produces much less rain than forest areas.\
Deserts - these biomes are characterized by very low precipitation, and can occur in either hot or cold temperatures. These biomes often exist at 30 degrees north and south latitude.\
Temperate Grasslands - Temperate areas with low amounts of rainfall - enough to support grasses, but not enough to support trees.  The prairies are an example of temperate grasslands.\
Temperate scrublands - temperate biomes that often suffer summer drought and contain drought adapted plants, shrubs and trees. \
Temperate forests - also called midlatitude forests, they appear mainly between 30 and 55 degrees latitude, and have a wide range of precipitation. These forests are often grouped by tree type: coniferous and deciduous. \
Boreal forests - are slow growing forests dominated by conifers and exist between 50 and 60 degrees north latitude. \
Tundra - a biome that exists at very high latitudes or on mountaintops and is characterized by a very short growing season and is dominated by small, hardy vegetation. No trees can grow.\
\
10. Throughout the central portion of North America is a large biome once dominated by grasses. Describe how physical conditions and other factors control this biome.\
\
The central part of the US and Canada was once dominated by temperate grasslands and has now been converted to farmland. This biome has rich soil, and can support crops such as wheat and corn very well. The annual cycle of of accumulation leaves and deep rooted plants produce excellent soil. In drier grasslands where crops are not viable and grasses are prevalent, overgrazing is a threat. Excessive grazing causes the destruction of the grasses and plants, causing erosion and the spread of less desirable plants.\
\
11. Explain the difference between swamps, marshes, and bogs.\
\
Swamps, marshes and bogs are all different types of wetland. Swamps are wetlands that have trees, and are also called forested wetlands. Marshes are wetlands with no trees, and bogs are areas of water saturated ground. The ground in a bog is generally many layers of undecided vegetation.\
\
12. What does the acronym 
\i HIPPO
\i0  refer to?\
\
The acronym HIPPO summarizes the human threats to biodiversity. It stands for:\
Habitat destruction,\
Invasive species,\
Pollution,\
Population of humans, and\
Overharviesting\
\
\
}