{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\author Al}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12540\viewh16140\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs22 \cf0 ENVR 102							Spring 2013\
Quiz Assignment  #1						Due 1/9/13\
Chapter 1							Name: Thomas Byrne\
1. Describe the steps in the scientific method.\
The scientific method is broken into 6 steps: 1) Identify the question. 2) Form a testable hypothesis. 3) Develop a way to test the hypothesis. 4) Collect data from the test(s). 5) Interpret the results. At this point, the hypothesis may be proven or disproven, or it may need to be revised. If so, return to step 2. If not, proceed to step 6: Report your results for peer review. \
2. What is 
\i probability
\i0 ? Give an example.\
Probability is a measure of how likely something is to occur. It is generally based on a set of observations or on standard statistical measures. \
An example of this is rolling a single, 6 sided die. On any single roll, the chances of getting any specific digit (such as a 5) is 1 in 6. In the popular dice game Yahtzee, the hardest goal is to roll 5 dice and get all the same number. In any single roll of 5 dice, the probability of getting 5 dice the same is (1)*(1/6)*(1/6)*(1/6)*(1/6) or 1 in 1296. The probability of getting all five dice reading a specific number in one roll(such as hoping they all come up 4) is 1 in 7776. \
3. Why are scientists generally skeptical? \
Scientists are ideally skeptics, because the scientific method requires that all conclusions be the result of substantial evidence and proof, and even then, that there may be unknown evidence that could appear to disprove those conclusions. \
3b. Why do tests require replication?\
Tests require replication to prove that any outcome is consistent. In the event that tests are only performed once or a few times, there may be unknown mitigating factors affecting the outcome. Testing under controlled conditions is essential for reproducibility, both to prove consistency, and to ensure that other can reproduce the same results. If test results are not repeatable, it is likely that the original outcomes are incorrect.\
4. What is the first step in critical thinking, according to table 1.4?\
The first step in critical thinking is: "What is the purpose of my thinking?".\
5. Distinguish between 
\i utilitarian conservation 
\i0 and 
\i biocentric preservation
\i0 .  Name two environmental leaders associated with each of these philosophies.\
Utilitarian Conservation argues that the primary reason to develop and save natural resources is for the betterment of the current generation. Gifford Pinchot and Theodore Roosevelt were proponents of Utilitarian Conservation. \
Biocentric Preservation takes the standpoint that nature deserves to exist and be preserved for it's own sake, regardless of it's usefulness to people, either current or future generations. Aldo Leopold and John Muir were believers in the Preservation movement. \
6. Why do some experts regard water as the most critical natural resource for the twenty-first century? \
Water is regarded as the most critical natural resource because it is already reaching near-critical shortages in many places. Over 1 billion people do not have safe drinking water today, and over 2 billion people do not have adequate sanitation. Already, water supplies are insufficient to meet demand for 40% of the world's population. In addition, the UN projects that by 2025, nearly 75% of the world could live in circumstances wherein we do not have access to safe or sanitized water. (Cunningham, 5)\
7. Describe some signs of progress in overcoming global environmental problems.\
There are many signs of progress - the awareness of our environment has lead to many nations officially recognizing that there are issues and taking steps to counteract them. An example of this would be: countries forming national agencies to study and change the environment for the better (For example, the US formed the Environmental Protection Agency in 1970). A second example of this would be that the UN and groups of nations are coming together to confront specific environmental issues, such as the Kyoto Protocol - an environmental treaty to monitor and reduce the emission of greenhouse gasses. \
8. What is the link between poverty and environmental quality?\
The thinking has historically been that in order for the world's poorest nations to progress, they would need to do it at the expense of the environment. The poorest populations often exploit their resources and water, because they have nothing else, nor any interest in conserving them. In contrast, the wealthiest nations often consume extraordinary amounts of natural resources, far more than most other nations.\
There has been an increasing link between social progress and environmental quality, and the goal now is sustainable development - economic improvement while conserving the environment. \
9. Define or describe 
\i sustainability
\i0  and 
\i sustainable
\i0\b  
\i\b0 development
\i0 .\
Sustainable Development is a goal - to meet the needs of today's people, while preserving resources and environmental systems for future generations.  Sustainable Development is outlined in the UN's agreement on development, and contains ten key factors. \
Sustainability is a search - for stability in our ecology, and for human progress that can maintain that stability. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\b \cf0 WORKS CITED\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\b0 \cf0 Cunningham, William. 
\i Principals Of Environmental Science, 7th Edition. 
\i0 McGraw Hill, 2013. Print.}