{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\author Al}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12840\viewh16440\viewkind1\viewscale102
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\b\fs22 \cf0 Assignment Quiz 7	Chapters 13 and 14			Name:Tom Byrne\
Due Date: 4-30-12							37 Points possible\
Chapter 13\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\b0 \cf0 1. What is 
\i Desertech
\i0 , and how will it help Europe meet its energy needs? 		(2 Points)\
Desertech is a consortium of german banks and energy companies that are researching the feasibility of setting up solar power plants in North Africa, and shipping low cost electricity to Europe via High Voltage Direct Current(HVDC) lines. This will help Europe to wean off of it's need for fossil rules, and could pioneer a large-scale efficient, green energy plan.\
2. Define 
\i energy, power, 
\i0 and
\i  kilowatt-hour (kWh).					
\i0  (3 Points)\
Energy is the capacity to do work.\
Power refers to the rate of energy flow, or the rate of work done.\
A Kilowatt-hour (kWh) refers to the use of one thousand watt-hours. This is the equivalent of using a 100 watt light bulb for 10 hours.\
3. What are the major sources of global commercial energy?				 (4 Points)\
The major sources of global commercial energy are fossil fuels. About 90% of all commercial energy comes from fossil fuels. The US only gets about 82% of it's energy from fossil fuels: About 37% from oil, 25% from natural gas, and 21% from coal.\
4. What are 
\i tar sands 
\i0 and
\i  oil shales? 
\i0 What are the environmental costs of their extraction? (3 Points)\
Tar Sands are sand and shale particles voted with bitumen, which is a long-chain hydrocarbon, and can be used similar to crude oil\
Oil Shales are fine-grained sedimentary rock that is infused with kerogen, an organic material that can be harvested like liquid crude oil. \
The environmental costs of extraction include millions of square meters of toxic waste, emissions of greenhouse gases, and the contamination of billions of litres of water.\
5. How are nuclear wastes now being stored?						(2 Points)\
Nuclear wastes are being stored in several ways. Less-dangerous wastes are simply stored in piles around the fuel processing plants, causing runoff and contamination. The highly radioactive waste (around 77,000 tons) are stored in deep, water-filled pools around current power plants. There was a plan to consolidate much of this waste under Yucca Mountain in Nevada, but funding for the project has been cut.\
6. Explain 
\i active
\i0  and 
\i passive solar energy
\i0 .						(2 Points)\
Passive solar energy refers to the use of natural or absorptive materials or structures without moving parts to gather and hold heat. Examples of this are stone or adobe dwellings, or greenhouses.\
Active systems generally pump a heat-absorbing, fluid medium through a collector, and pick up heat. \
7. How do 
\i photovoltaic cells 
\i0 work?							(1 Point)\
Photovoltaic cells work by separating electrons from their parent atoms and accelerating them across an electrostatic barrier. The first type of PV cells were made from wafers of silicon. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\b \cf0 Chapter 14\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\b0 \cf0 1. What are 
\i solid wastes 
\i0 and 
\i hazardous wastes
\i0 ? What is the difference between them?	(3 Points)\
Solid wastes refer to the garbage that we produce. \
Hazardous Wastes are the hazardous materials that get mixed into the waste stream - items such as paint, batteries, cleaning solvents and plastics. Specifically, they are any discarded material, liquid or solid that contains substances known to be fatal to humans or animals, toxic, carcinogenic, ignitable, corrosive or explosive.\
These two are different because the hazardous wastes can cause significantly more environmental damage, and need to be specially controlled and disposed of. \
2. Describe the difference between an 
\i open dump
\i0 , a 
\i sanitary landfill
\i0 , and a modern, secure, 
\i hazardous waste disposal site
\i0 .									(3 Points)\
An open dump is a location where waste is simply dropped or piled. They are often unregulated, or illegal (in most developed countries and urban areas).\
A sanitary landfill is a specially designed waste disposal location that follows correct laws to reduce smells, litter, insects and vermin. These locations will compact and cover the garbage and waste every day. Landfills also control the disposal of hazardous wastes so that they are not grouped together with other solid wastes. Often, modern landfills have many of the same safeguards as Hazardous Waste repositories.\
A hazardous waste disposal site is a special, EPA regulated location that hazardous waste can be brought to for permanent storage, or sometimes for processing into less-toxic or non-toxic materials. Permanent storage can involve containers being placed into a 'secure' location, such as in a salt mine or bedrock cavern.\
3. List some benefits and drawbacks of recycling wastes. What are the major types of materials recycled from municipal waste, and how are they used?						(4 Points)\
Recycling waste can have many benefits: the cost of recycling some materials can be drastically lower than mining or creating these same materials (such as aluminum), it can reduce the cost of collecting garbage, (as it costs less to recycle materials than it does to dispose of them in a landfill,), and it reduces pollution, as these same materials do not need to be mined and refined. \
Recycling can have some drawbacks - in some cases the cost of recycling a material far exceeds the cost of creating it new. \
The major types of materials recycled from municipal wastes are aluminum cans (recycled  into aluminum which has thousands of uses), plastic PET bottles which can be used to make carpet, clothing and plastic packaging, and cardboard and paper. \
4. What is 
\i composting, 
\i0 and how does it fit into solid waste disposal?			(2 Points)\
Composting is taking the organic material, such as yard waste, and breaking it down under oxygen-rich (aerobic) contiditons. The result is 'compost' - a nutrient rich soil additive. \
5. What materials are most recycled in the United States?				(3 Points)\
The most recycled waste materials in the US are: Yard waste (65%), Paper & cardboard (56%), Metal (35%), and glass (23%). \
6. What are 
\i brownfields
\i0 , and why do cities want to redevelop them?			(2 Points)\
Brownfields are large areas of contaminated property that has been abandoned or is unused due to real or suspected pollution. Cities want to re-develop them, because the reclamation of previously toxic areas to livable land can create jobs, encourage restoration, and prevent the destruction of open space at the edges of urban areas. \
\
7. What are 
\i bioremediation 
\i0 and
\i  phytoremediation?  
\i0 What are some advantages to these methods? (3 Points)\
Bioremediation is biological waste treatment - where microscopic bacteria and fungi absorb, accumulate and detoxify toxic compounds.\
Pytoremediation is a similar type of cleanup, using plants. Some varieties of plants can extract toxic or radioactive  materials from the soil, and break down toxic organic chemicals.\
These methods advantageous because they can provide a natural, organic solution to reducing some toxic materials, and additionally, can be better for environmental health as well as being lower cost than other toxic removal alternatives.\
}