{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 ComicSansMS;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\title More Heat Stress}
{\author thaca0}
{\*\company BP}}\margl1440\margr1584\vieww12840\viewh16440\viewkind1\viewscale105
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f1 \cf0 Assignment Quiz 8 				Name: Tom Byrne\
\
Due Date: 5-10-13 					20 Points \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\b \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f2 \cf0 Chapter 15\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
1. Define 
\i sustainable development. 
\i0 (2 Points)\
Sustainable Development is the process of improving peoples lives in a long-term fashion, without damaging the ecological resources that sustain our generation, and future generations. \
\
2. In your own words, describe what is shown in figure 15.22.  (3 Points)\
This figure shows a cost/benefit analysis detailing the tradeoffs and meeting point where the cost of removing pollution from the environment exceeds the benefits. Beyond the crossover or "Optimum Point",  the cost of pollution removal exceeds the benefits of doing so - although this does not take into account many intangible benefits. 
\i \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\i0\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f2 \cf0 Chapter 16\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
3. List five things each of us could do to help preserve our common environment. (10 Points)\
Five things we can do to preserve our environment and reduce our environmental impact are:\
1) Purchase Less (buy less stuff, use things longer)\
2) Reduce Packaging ( reuse bags, recycle plastic bags)\
3) Avoid Disposable Items (napkins, paper, plastic, water bottles, batteries)\
4) Conserve Energy (use public transit, walk, carpool, turn off heat/lights when not in use)\
5) Save Water (use water saving devices, develop good watering/washing habits).\
\
4. Define 
\i sustainable development 
\i0 and describe some of its principal tenets. (5 Points)\
\
Some of the principal tenets of sustainable development are:\
- transitioning our population to a stable one, with consistent low birth and death rates.\
- Transition to high efficiency energy use in production, as well as more reliance on renewable energy.\
- Movements towards a reliance only on nature's 'income', without depleting it's 'capital'.\
- an economic transition to sustainable development, including the broad sharing of it's benefits.\
- an ethical transition towards unification with our environment and nature. \
\
}