{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\title More Heat Stress}
{\author thaca0}
{\*\company BP}}\margl1296\margr1008\margb864\margt864\vieww13140\viewh16740\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Quiz Assignment 4							Name: Tom Byrne\
\
					  Chapters 6, 7, & 8\
\
Due Date 3/23/13								Points Possible  =  24\
\
Chapter 6\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs22 \cf0 1. What continent is experiencing the greatest forest losses?    (1 Point)\
\
Africa is losing the most forests, with a change of about -0.5% from 2005-2010.\
\
2. What portion of the United States\'92 public rangelands are in poor or very poor condition due to overgrazing? Why do some groups say grazing fees amount to a \'93hidden subsidy\'94?    (2 Points)\
\
55% of the United States' public rangelands are in poor or very poor conditions due to overgrazing. Groups claim that grazing fees amount to a "hidden subsidy" because the ranchers pay far below market value for leasing of public grazing lands. In most cases, this land is leased for less than 25% of the cost of equivalent private grazing land. The government pays the other 75% of the costs for the administration and maintenance of the public land.\
\
3. How does the size and design of nature preserves influence their effectiveness? What do landscape ecologists mean by 
\i interior habitat 
\i0 and 
\i edge effects?     
\i0 (4 Points)\
\
The size and design of a nature preserve can influence nature preserves in several ways: first, smaller preserves can support fewer species, simply due to having less area. Larger preserves can support more species, and by extension, are more likely to support more diversity and rarer species than several species.  While some species who flourish in the edge habitats may increase when there are multiple small preserves, this comes at the expense of the diversity of species who can flourish in large preserves.\
\
Edge Effects describe the effects at the edge of a habitat. These are often represented by more varied ranges of temperature, sunlight, weather, and humidity.\
\
Interior Habitat, also known as Core Habitat are areas that are deep inside a habitat area, and have conditions that are better for species that are specialized to that habitat.
\i \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\i0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Chapter 7\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0\fs22 \cf0 \
4. What does it mean to be chronically undernourished? How many people in the world currently suffer from this condition?  (3 Points)\
\
 Chronic Undernourishment can be defined as being consistently unable to consume the minimum amount of food considered necessary to maintain a healthy and productive lifestyle. This is currently considered to be 2,200 kilocalories.\
\
Currently, there are an estimated 900 million people that suffer from hunger and chronic undernourishment.\
\
5. What are four dominant types of soil degradation? What is the primary cause of soil erosion?    (4 Points)\
\
The four major types of soil degredation are:\
\
1)Water and wind erosion,  where wind and water cause soil to move and erode away from useful areas.\
2) Chemical degradation, where the chemical makeup of the soil is affected by pollution, accumulation of harmful minerals and elements (such as salt) or loss of needed nutrients.\
3)  Physical degradation, where the soil is physically affected via heavy machinery or excess irrigation.\
4) Laterization, Where tropical soil becomes too hard for use because of exposure to rain and the sun.\
\
The primary cause of soil erosion is water. Running water due to rain or snow melt can cause sheet or rill erosion, and water can be lost along creeks, streams and rivers due to stream bank erosion. \
\
6. What are the advantages of low-input farming?  (3 Points)\
Low input farming has many advantages, such as less ecological impact,  a higher net gain, more positive community impact and produces healthier food. It produces lower ecological impact, because they practice sustainable farming techniques, including monitoring and fighting erosion and chemical buildup due to overcrowding of animals and waste disposal. It produces a more positive community impact, because it requires more people and farms to produce the same amount of food products, even though the overall net gain is higher. Finally, the food is of better quality because the animals are allowed to graze more naturally and are not subject to the stresses and drugs that are required to maintain high-density animal farms.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Chapter 8\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\fs22 \cf0 7. Is it ever possible to be completely healthy?    (1 Points)\
Not by the official WHO definition of health. At some point, everyone will suffer from times of being physically, mentally or socially unwell, and therefore will not be 'healthy'.\
\
8. Why do we spend more money on heart diseases or cancer than childhood diseases?  (1 Points)\
\
The shift of which diseases and illnesses are causing the greatest damage worldwide have shifted. While childhood diseases caused the greatest threat just a few years ago, by 2020 the greatest danger to people worldwide are illnesses and diseases like cancer (which is expected to rise by 50% to 15 million people) and heart disease. \
\
9. Why do we tend to assume that natural chemicals are safe while industrial chemicals are evil? Is this correct?\
(2 Points)
\fs24 \
I think that we tend to assume that 'natural chemicals are safe (or at least 
\i more
\i0  safe), due simply to the ongoing mental image that 'natural' things are good, while 'artificial' or 'industrial' things are worse for you. This is not necessarily true - some natural chemicals can easily be worse for us than a whole raft of 'industrial' chemicals.\
\

\fs22 10. Do you agree that 1 in 1 million risk of death is an acceptable risk? Notice that almost everything in table 8.4 carries a greater risk than this. Does this make you want to change your habits? Why? \
\
I personally agree that a 1 in 1,000,000 chance of death is an acceptable risk (according to the book, we have a 1 in 5,000 chance of dying in an automobile accident, but I still drive daily.) I think that when looking at certain items, the risk of them happening really does not affect people. According to the book, there is roughly a 50% chance of any single person dying or having complications due to heart disease, but we still see rocketing rates of obesity, increasing rates of smoking and less exercise, all of which contribute to our likelihood of contracting heart disease. \
\
I strongly feel that until a person (and this goes for me as well) is confronted by an immediate or impending problem, they rarely will change their habits. As much as I would like to say that I would like to lose weight, eat less fast food and be healthier, realistically, I doubt that the 'future possibility' of me contracting cancer or heart disease will make me change my habits any time soon.}