{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\title More Heat Stress}
{\author thaca0}
{\*\company BP}}\margl1440\margr1584\vieww12840\viewh16440\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Quiz Assignment 5
\b0 							Name: Tom Byrne\
\

\b Chapters 9 & 10
\b0 		36 Points Possible			Due: 04/01/2013 Mid-Night\
\

\b Chapter 9\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
\
1. Name and describe four layers of the atmosphere.				(4 Points)\
\
The four layers of the atmosphere are:\
1) The Troposphere (closest to the earth and the densest layer).\
2) The Stratosphere \
3) The Mesosphere \
4) The Thermosphere - the highest layer.\
\
2. What is the 
\i greenhouse effect
\i0 ? What is a greenhouse gas?		(2 Points)\
\
The 
\i greenhouse effect
\i0  describes the energy captured by gases in the atmosphere. It is similar to the way that heat is trapped inside a greenhouse. \
A 
\i greenhouse gas 
\i0 is a gas whose molecules causes energy(such as long-wave energy) to be captured or reflected back to earth, instead of escaping out into space. Some greenhouse gasses include water vapor, CFC's, CO2, CH4 and N2O.\
\
3. Explain the following
\i : Hadley cells, jet streams, Coriolis effect.		
\i0 (3 Points)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\i \cf0 \
Hadley Cells - 
\i0 Is a primary type of air circulation cell. Air is heated and rises at areas near the equator, flows towards the poles, descends around the sub-tropical areas, and flows back to the equator near the surface. \
\

\i Jet Streams - 
\i0 Are narrow, fast-flowing air currents that are 
\i generally
\i0  found high in the atmosphere, and usually flow in a westerly (from west to east) direction. \
\

\i Coriolis Effect - 
\i0 This refers to the modification of motion (technically a deflection of a moving object), caused by a secondary object rotating on an axis. On earth, this causes different things (such as water and atmosphere) to move in a direction that is perpendicular to the axis of the rotating body - clockwise in the northern hemisphere, and counter-clockwise in the southern hemisphere.
\i \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\i0 \cf0 \
4. What is the 
\i IPCC
\i0 , and what is its function?				(2 Points)\
\
The 
\i IPCC
\i0  is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. It is a group of government representatives and scientists from over 130 countries whose purpose is to review the cause and effects of human-induced climate change. \
\
5. What is the 
\i Kyoto Protocol
\i0 ?						(1 Point)\
\
The 
\i Kyoto Protocol
\i0  is a treaty, signed in Kyoto Japan by 160 nations to stabilize and reduce the emission levels of specific greenhouse gasses by 2012. \
\
6. What is a 
\i climate stabilization wedge
\i0 ? Why is it an important concept?	(2 Points)\
\
A 
\i climate stabilization wedge
\i0  is a smaller, targeted approach to reducing carbon emissions and ecological impact. This is an important concept, because by subdividing the problem, it is easier to get traction and buy-in, and smaller changes are often easier to implement than large changes.\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Chapter 10\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
1. Define 
\i primary 
\i0 and
\i  secondary air pollutants.				
\i0 (2 Points)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\i \cf0 Primary Pollutants
\i0  are substances or chemicals that are already harmful when released into the atmosphere.\

\i Secondary Pollutants
\i0  are substances that are not harmful when released, but become harmful when they react with other chemicals, gases or substances in the air.\
\
2. What are the six \'93criteria\'94 pollutants in the original Clean Air Act?  Why were they chosen? What are some additional hazardous air toxins have been added?		(14 Points)\
\
The six "criteria" pollutants in the Clean Air Act were: sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, ozone (and volatile organic compounds), lead, and particulate matter. These were chosen because they were the primary and largest contributors to poor air quality - they caused they largest volume of degradation in air quality. These are also considered to be a great threat to human health. \
\
Additionally, there are additional toxins that have been added. These include PCB's, vinyl chloride, mercury, asbestos and benzene. \
\
\
\
\
\
3. What pollutants in indoor air may be hazardous to your health?  What is the greatest indoor air problem globally?								(2 Points)\
\
Indoor air pollutants that are hazardous to our health include formaldehyde, benzene, carbon tetrachloride and chloroform.  The greatest indoor air problem is cigarette smoke - it causes strokes, emphysema, heart attacks and lung cancer, among other issues, and is filled with toxic chemicals and carcinogens.\
\
4. What is 
\i acid deposition
\i0 ? What causes it?					(2 Points)\
\

\i Acid Deposition
\i0  is the depositing of acid from water vapors, such as rain, snow or fog. It is generally caused by air pollution, such as from mining. The results of acid rain, snow or fog can cause damage to properties (due to hyper erosion from the acid), and can deposit toxins throwing off the ecological balance and killing plants and animals. \
\
5. What is an atmospheric 
\i inversion
\i0  and how does it trap air pollutants?	(2 Points)\
\
An atmospheric 
\i inversion
\i0  is when the layers of air are out of order, and still, colder air settles on the ground, and is trapped by a layer of warmer air. Generally, when warm air is near the ground and colder air above, the rising warm air causes turbulence and winds, blowing pollutants away from their sources. During an inversion, this turbulence doesn't happen, and the still, cold air does not move. Pollutants accumulate in the lowest layers of the atmosphere and stay there. }