{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\})}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\})}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}}
\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\b\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Quiz 6								Name: Thomas Byrne\
\
Chapters 11 & 12						Due Date: 4/13/13  Mid-Night\
									     45 Points Possible\
\
Chapter 11\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx20\tx260\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li240\fi-240\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	1.	}
\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
About what percent of the world\'92s water is liquid, fresh, surface water that supports most terrestrial life?  (1 Point)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\
About 0.2% of the world\'92s water is available to us and other organisms that rely on fresh water.\
\
\pard\tx20\tx260\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li240\fi-240\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	1.	}
\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What is an 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
aquifer?
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 How does water get into an aquifer? Explain the idea of an
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 artesian well 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and a 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
cone of depression
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
.  (4 Points)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\
An 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
aquifer
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is a geologic layer that contains water. Surface water seeps down into an aquifer through a recharge zone, an area that is not made up of impermeable material.\
An 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
artesian well
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is a well or spring that flows freely at the surface and is fed or pushed by the water pressure in an aquifer.\
A 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
cone of depression
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is an area where previously water was available, but due to pumping or other circumstances, the water table is lowered, and water is no longer available at previous depths.\
\
\pard\tx20\tx260\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li240\fi-240\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	1.	}
\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What is the difference between water 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
withdrawal 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 consumption?  
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Which sector of water use consumes most globally? Overall, has water use increased in the past century? Has efficiency increased or decreased in the three main use sectors?   (4 points)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\
Withdrawal refers to the total amount water removed from a body (such as a lake). The majority of this water will be recycled or put back into the environment in some form.\
\
Consumption refers to the amount of water that is lost or cannot be reused due to transformation or other reasons.\
\
Agriculture uses the largest portion of our fresh water globally - about 70%. \
\
Water use has increased in the last century. It has grown about twice as fast as the population has.\
\
Water efficiency has increased in the three main use sectors.\
\
\
4. Explain the difference between 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
point
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 and 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
nonpoint pollution
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
. Which is harder to control? Why?  \
(3 Points)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Nonpoint pollution
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is pollution that does not have a specific location or point where they discharge into our water system. Water runoff from fields or roads are examples of nonpoint pollution.\
\

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Point Pollution
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is pollution that discharges from a specific location, such as a drain pipe or sewer outfall. \
\

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Nonpoint 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
pollution is much harder to control, as there is no one specific point where pollution can be trapped or treated. Pollution that enters the environment in multiple places, such as car exhaust or pesticides have to be regulated and stopped before they are spread, as they can\'92t be stopped before they\'92re emitted into the environment.
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
5. Why are nutrients considered pollution? Explain the ideas of 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
eutrophication 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
an
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 oxygen sag.  \

\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(3 Points)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Nutrients
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 can be considered pollution because when they are dumped in excessive levels, they can cause uncontrolled growth of microbes and algae that harm the water.\
\

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Eutrophication
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is the increase of nutrient levels and biologic productivity. Cultural Eutrophication is eutrophication caused by human activities, and is often marked by accelerated eutrophication that is harmful.\
\

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Oxygen Sag
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is the decreased oxygen levels downstream of a point source. As the environment absorbs waste materials, the available oxygen in the area falls. Further downstream, as decomposers metabolize the waste material, oxygen levels slowly return to normal.
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
6. What are some sources of groundwater contamination? Why is groundwater pollution such a difficult problem?  (4 Points)\
\
Sources of groundwater contamination include air pollutants, fertilizer, cattle manure and pets. \
\
This is a difficult problem for multiple reasons. Groundwater is contaminated from many sources - some of which are very distant from the place where they are found, such as air pollutants from plants traveling many hundreds of miles before falling to earth. In addition, there are many unregulated activities that currently affect groundwater, such as dense animal farming. Laws to make changes have been proven to be effective, but these laws need to be created and enforced at the federal level to have any effect. Lastly, even the current studies and treatments only look for a small percentage of items, and can easily miss newer pollutants. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chapter 12\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx20\tx260\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li240\fi-240\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	1.	}
\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
How does tectonic plate movement create ocean basins, mid-ocean ridges, and volcanoes? (2 Points)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\
Tectonic plates are huge blocks that move based on the currents in the earth\'92s mantle. These plates slide extremely slowly across the earth\'92s surface. Where these plates pull apart, they create 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ocean basins
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
. Where these plates crack, if magma is forced up through them, they become 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
mid-ocean ridges
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 if under water. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Volcanoes
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 can form when plates pass over a \'91hot spot\'92, or where plates converge and cause melting.\

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx20\tx260\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li240\fi-240\pardirnatural
\ls5\ilvl0
\i0\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	1.	}
\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What is the \'93
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ring of fire
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'94?  (1 Point)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\
The 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ring of fire
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is a ring around the pacific ocean rim, from Indonesia to Japan, up to Alaska and down the coast of the Americas where oceanic plates are being subducted (pushed under) the continental plates. This is characterized by lots of volcanic activity and earthquakes. \
\
Alternately, if you are a Johnny Cash fan, the 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ring of fire
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 could refer to falling in love:\
\'93Love is a burning thing,\
And it makes a fiery ring. \
Bound by wild desire,\
I fell into a ring of fire.\'94 (Cash, Johnny. 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ring Of Fire, 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Columbia Records, 1963. Record.)\
\
\
\
\pard\tx20\tx260\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li240\fi-240\pardirnatural
\ls6\ilvl0
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	1.	}
\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What is the difference between metals and nonmetal mineral resources?  (2 Points)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
Metals are characterized by their composition. They are relatively light, stong, malleable, and can be (relatively) easily reshaped for multiple purposes. They are so important that we have named major \'93ages\'94 in human development after them, ie: \'93Stone\'94 Age (pre-metalworking), \'93Bronze\'94 age, and \'93Iron\'94 age. Non-metal minerals lack in one or more of these qualities. Important non-metal minerals include gemstones, salt, limestone and silica.\
\
4. What is a 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
mineral 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and a
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 rock
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
? Why are pure metals not minerals?  (3 Points)\
\
A 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
mineral 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is an inorganic solid, characterized by a specific internal crystalline structure and a specific chemical composition, which occurs naturally.\
\
A 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
rock 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is a solid aggregate of one or more minerals. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Pure metals
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 are not considered minerals because although their ore may have been a mineral, the refining and purifying process destroys the internal crystalline structure, and are therefore no longer minerals. 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
5. Which countries are the single greatest producers of our major metals?  (3 points)\
\
The countries that are the largest producers of major metals are Canada, the US, Russia and China. \
\
6. Compare the different mining methods of 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
underground
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
, 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
open-pit, strip, 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
placer mining
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
, as well as 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
mountaintop removal.  
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
(6 Points)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Placer Mining 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is an ancient method of mining gold, where gold nuggets and flakes are washed out of stream sediments. This type of mining can cause excessive sediment to choke streams.\
\

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Underground Mining
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 involves digging tunnels underground and directly removing the ores. This type of mining can cause toxic groundwater seepage, explosions (due to natural gas pockets) as well as physical danger, in the case of tunnels collapsing.\
\

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Open Pit Mining
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 refers to simply digging a huge pit on the surface, near large ore deposits, and mining all the ore that is found. This can lead to toxic groundwater accumulation. \
\

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Strip Mining
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is similar to open pit mining, but the ground is dug away in large strips, coinciding with the large horizontal strips that coal is found in.  Strip mining causes increased erosion and the land is difficult to restore once the mine is no longer viable.\
\

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mountaintop Removal
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 involves removing or moving all the layers of sedimentary rock on top of, and between the horizontal layers of coal on the top of a mountain. This is done with large earth moving equipment and explosives. MTR mining causes water pollution and destroys the surface, including clear-cutting the forests and causing damage to streams and land downhill of the mining area.
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx20\tx260\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li240\fi-240\pardirnatural
\ls7\ilvl0
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	1.	}
\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What is 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
mass wasting? 
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Give three examples and explain why they are a problem.  (4 Points)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mass Wasting
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is a general term for the downhill sliding of earth. \

\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Examples:\
\pard\tx20\tx258\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li238\fi-239\pardirnatural
\ls8\ilvl0
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	a)	}
\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Landslides
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 - these are sudden collapses of a hillside. If the structure of a hill is compromised by erosion, storm saturation or human factors(logging or road construction, for example), the entire hillside can collapse, taking houses and other structures with it.\
\ls8\ilvl0
\i\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	b)	}
\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Soil Creep
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 - is the constant, slow movement of material downhill. This can be so slow as to be imperceptible.\
\ls8\ilvl0
\i\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	c)	}
\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Falls/Rockfalls
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 - this type of mass wasting is characterized by large sections of rocks breaking off of a face (usually due to vertical cracks), and cascading down a slope. These can cause tremendous damage to anything below that the rocks come in contact with.
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
8. What is a 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
floodplain
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
? Why is building on floodplains controversial?  (2 Points)\
\
A 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
floodplain
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is a large, level area adjacent to a river that can be inundated with water during a flood. \
\
Building on a floodplain is controversial, as these areas are statistically likely to be flooded, at some point. Anti-flood measures such as drainage and levees only defer the problem, causing increased damage or flooding downriver.\
\
9. The Mesozoic period begins and ends with the appearance and disappearance of dinosaurs. What fossils mark the other geologic eras?  (3 Points)\
\
\pard\tx20\tx258\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li238\fi-239\pardirnatural
\ls9\ilvl0
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	a)	}
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Precambrian
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 era is marked by the earliest single-celled fossils. This is the longest era, lasting from the beginning of the earth\'92s history until 545 Million years ago.\
\ls9\ilvl0
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	b)	}
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Paleozoic
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 era is marked by the first abundant fossils, as well as the first fish and reptile fossils.\
\ls9\ilvl0
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
{\listtext	c)	}
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cenozoic
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 era is marked by the first important mammals and later humans. This era began about 65 million years ago.}